Online vs. Offline reality

The virtual world has many advantages, such as having all the information you want in the palm of your hand or for example being able to meet new people from all over the world and have many friends on social networks like Facebook, or have many followers in Twitter, break down the barriers and bring together people you do not know but share things in common. On the other side is the real world, a place to make personal relationships is much more difficult, people are subject to certain parameters governed under a very demanding society. It would seem that at the moment you leave your home technological life will have to bow to reality, but at the beginning of the third millennium is impossible to deny the virtual world of this other concrete and physical surroundings.

When we talk about measuring which one is more real, online or offline reality, we get to an impasse, we are used to think that the existence of one fights with the other, and in consequence we are the ones creating the conflict. We see these concepts as opposites, but if we try to have a bigger picture we can realize that one makes the other better, and that in fact they don´t necessarily try to have everything for itself. It is indispensable to make a deeper analysis, taking into account that the idea of one replacing the other would lead to the lack of context for the contemporary history.

Most of the time, it’s been said “Internet is going to kill printed media” but maybe according to facts, we could get into the idea of “Internet is going to HELP printed media”. As time passes, we are witnessing the evolution of both realities; films like Transcendence had shown in an hypothetical scenario the mistakes it could lead us to try to live in an online world; the main difficulty would be, we could "loose our feet" on our way to progress, and take things over our acknowledgment. 

It’s been proved by history that you cannot forget about the principles, and that a better connection and communication, comes with the adoption of the characteristics proper of evolving. Nowadays, maybe in a rudimentary way you see three generations (generation X, Millennial, and generation Z) in a same context.  One thing is for sure: online reality has come to stay. Everyday, media takes all the channels they can, so that in a way or another the audience gets to see them.

Offline reality has been criticized for being slow, characteristic that cannot be denied, but also must of the time it’s most trustworthy. The most influential thing in the importance of offline reality is that people take more into account a newspaper than any website.  In online reality we face to a created identity, the person you are online might not be you, but it is who you decide to be, and sometimes, that identity follows you everywhere, taking all what you have told to the web, and turning you into sequence that show you what they think you are interested on, but maybe it is not based in who you really are.

Leinbach-Reyhle, N. (2015, June 16). The Single Most Important Reason Why Online Marketing Is More Important Than Ever. Retrieved July 16, 2015.

Krotoski, A. (2012, April 19). Online identity: Is authenticity or anonymity more important? Retrieved July 16, 2015.
